# 5AUA0 Group 9 Project 2 2023
## Authors
Alessandro Brugnera 1889958
Sebastian Joseph 1874411

## How to train
The model can be trained by running the model+processing.py or cityscape_model+processing.py file. The first has to be used with the Semkitti dataset, the second with CityscapeDVPS dataset. The dataset chosen must be downloaded manually and the correct path should be set inside the file being executed. To use the additional lossed and additional argument needs to be passed to the file: use_depth_loss

The training process creates several files. To each training process a PID is associated and this PID is used to distinguish and connect the files. The model_* files contain the weights of the model, the log_* files contain the losses and logs of the training process. The PID is specified as the first number appearing in the filename.

## How to validate
_Validation has not been done inside the training file to save time since the training was done in a time limited availabilty machine_
Run the model_validator_cityscapes.py or the model_validator_semkitti.py file. The first is being used for the CityscapeDVPS output, the second for SemkittiDVPS. The first argument to be passed is the PID of the original train process, this PID is saved as the first number appearing in the filename of the model. This has been done to distinguish different models and permit parallel trainings. By default the training process saves the model after each epoch for validation. This can of course be changed.

## Other files
create_graphs.py, create_eval_graphs.py, create_combined_graphs.py are used to extract the losses from the log files generated by the training process. These losses are returned as JSON arrays, not as graph images.

_Note: For the project Python 3.9 was used_